Hi friends
In this video let us discuss about using a pointer
to structure.
So like normal pointer to variables like integer, character we
can also create a pointer to structure. See this example
We have a structure employee with members Name,age and
weight
Now we create  structure variable 'e' with values
abc, 20 and 55.5
Now we create a structure pointer ptr and assign the
address of e which is 1024 to it
Now let us see how to access structure members using
pointers
Here ptr is pointing to structure variable e.
So dereferencing pointer
variable like *ptr is functionally equivalent to structure
variable e. To access the member we have to use
the member access operator dot so we can use
*ptr.structure_member. But since dot operator has higher precedence over
the indirection operator *
We have to use parenthesis around *ptr. That is
*ptr in parentheses dot structure member
So to access name use *ptr within parentheses dot name
So in this print statement abc will be printed. In the
second print statement we access age using (*ptr).age
So it will get printed and to access the member
weight use (*ptr).weight.  So here 55.5 will
get printed. Now let us discuss about the arrow operator.
The previously discussed method is slightly confusing because of things like
we need to close the parentheses and all
Also it is not readable
So C provides another way to access the structure members
using the arrow operator. the syntax is the pointer variable
followed by the arrow operator followed by a structure member
Here ptr->name refers to the name of
the employee. ptr->age refers to the age of
the employee and ptr->weight
refers to the weight of the employee
So let us replace the (*ptr).
with the arrow operator
So in the first print function we will get the
name abc printed. In the second print function we will
get age that is 20 printed. And finally in the
third print statement we will get wait 55.5 printed in
the output.
So the arrow operator makes it very easy for us
to access a structure member using a pointer.
So that's all and thank you watching this video.